---
title: Connections between Components
sidebar_label: Component Connections
---

In normal operation, the payer's MMO would connect directly to Mojaloop to
arrange a funds transfer to the payee's MMO. In testing, however, we must
inspect every message to validate that they are correctly formed. To achieve
this, the ITP acts as a transparent proxy between all components. By configuring
endpoint URLs within component A to point at the ITP instead of directly to
component B, the ITP can store all messages and forward them onto component B.

import { DelayedGraphviz } from "../../src/components/DelayedGraphviz";

<DelayedGraphviz
  timeout={1000}
  options={{ height: "auto", width: "100%" }}
  dot={`
    digraph {
      rankdir="TD"
      ratio="fill";
      size="8,3";
      node [
        fontname="var(--ifm-font-family)", shape="box", margin=0.3, penwidth=2
      ];
      edge [fontname="var(--ifm-font-family)", penwidth=2];
      sp [label="SP"]
      mmo1 [label="MMO1"]
      mojaloop [label="Mojaloop"]
      mmo2 [label="MMO2"]
      ITP [label="Test Platform"]
      subgraph sim {
        rank="same"
        edge[style="dashed", dir="both"]
        sp -> mmo1 [color="#67ab9f"]
        mmo1 -> mojaloop -> mmo2 
      }
      {
        edge[dir="both"]
        ITP -> {sp mmo1} [color="#67ab9f"]
        ITP -> {mmo1 mojaloop mmo2}
        ITP -> mojaloop[style="invis"]
      }
      subgraph leg {
        node [width=0.5, height=0.3, label="", style="invis"]
        {
          rank="same"
          a -> b [label="Actual message\n(MM API)", color="#67ab9f"] ;
          b -> c [label="Actual message\n(Mojaloop API)"] ;
        }
        {
          rank="same"
          d -> e [label="Logical message\n(MM API)", style=dashed, color="#67ab9f"];
          e -> f [label="Logical message\n(Mojaloop API)", style=dashed] ;
        }
        edge[style="invis"]
        {mmo1 mojaloop} -> b
        b -> e
      }
    }
`}
/>

## SUT URLs

Within a SUT, the base URL of each component should be configured according to
the following scheme:

```handlebars
https://{itp_url}/testing/{my_component}/{recipient_component}/{session_uuid}
```

`itp_url` is the base URL of the test platform (e.g.
`interop.gsmainclusivetechlab.io`). The `session_uuid` corresponds to a unique
ID for each testing session, and helps the test platform to validate incoming
messages to ensure that the correct test case is being executed. `my_component`
is the id of the component which is being tested, and `recipient_component` is
the id of the component to which the request will be made.

Thus, the base URL that an MMO1 test subject should use to send messages to
Mojaloop (through the test platform) would be:

```
https://interop.gsmainclusivetechlab.io/testing/mmo-1/mojaloop/b2a85076-b748-4d93-8df1-2b39844e6d4b/
```

It is not necessary to construct these URLs manually, as they will be displayed
within the test platform once a test session has been created.

## Insecure URLs

By default, all connections within ITP are assumed to be encrypted via mTLS. If
an encrypted connection is not possible, alternative insecure connections are
also available. These use the following format:

```handlebars
http://{itp_url}/testing-insecure/{my_component}/{recipient_component}/{session_uuid}
```

Thus, the base URL that an MMO1 test subject should use to send messages to
Mojaloop (through an unencrypted connection with the test platform) would be:

```
http://interop.gsmainclusivetechlab.io/testing-insecure/mmo-1/mojaloop/b2a85076-b748-4d93-8df1-2b39844e6d4b/
```

## Group URLs

Since a session UUID is encoded within the URL, it is necessary to use a new URL
every time a new session is created. This can be inconvenient in cases where a
SUT's URL is not easy to regularly reconfigure. In these situations, it is
possible to use a "Group URL" instead. A group URL is unique for a particular
user group, and a group administrator can remap the URL to point to a different
test session at any time. Group URLs use the following format:

```handlebars
https://{itp_url}/testing-group/{my_component}/{recipient_component}/{group_id}
http://{itp_url}/testing-insecure-group/{my_component}/{recipient_component}/{group_id}
```

Thus, the base URL that an MMO1 test subject should use to send messages to
Mojaloop (through a group URL belonging to the group with ID 99) would be:

```
https://interop.gsmainclusivetechlab.io/testing-group/mmo-1/mojaloop/99
```

This URL will not need reconfiguring inside the SUT when a new session is
created, since the group administrator can select a new default test session for
the group at any time.

## Implicit SUTs

Platform administrators may operate a system centrally for multiple users to use
in their tests. For example, a live Mojaloop switch may be operated by platform
administrators, for operators to test their connections.

In this case, it can be inconvenient for users to enter the details of the
shared system themselves - especially regarding encrypted connection details. To
solve this problem, the system can be designated as an "Implicit SUT". When the
system is selected for use in a test session, the connection details are
automatically configured in the test session.

Since the implicit SUT is expected to be used as part of multiple test
sessions - even as part of multiple groups - it is impossible to set a static
URL using any of the schemes above. In this case, a small modification is
required to the system, to ensure that an HTTP `traceparent` header is forwarded
for all related requests. In the case of Mojaloop, for example, no changes are
required because all HTTP headers are automatically forwarded to the request
recipient.

Using this HTTP header, the session and group IDs are no longer required inside
the component URL. As such, base URLs used by implicit SUTs have a simpler
structure:

```handlebars
https://{itp_url}/testing/{my_component}/{recipient_component}
http://{itp_url}/testing-insecure/{my_component}/{recipient_component}
```

Thus, the URL that a Mojaloop system configured as an Implicit SUT should use to
send messages to MMO 1 (through the test platform) would be:

```
https://interop.gsmainclusivetechlab.io/testing/mojaloop/mmo-1
```
