---
slug: /
title: The Interoperability Test Platform
sidebar_label: About
---

The GSMA Inclusive Tech Lab continues to support the mobile money industry to
develop the mobile financial ecosystem and enable a broad range of digital
transactions. It makes mobile wallets central to the lives of the financially
excluded and underserved, providing them with better solutions to manage their
financial resources and face economic shocks. Mobile money is poised to evolve
from a platform of 500 million accounts to reach more than a billion emerging
market consumers, bringing financial access to the previously underserved and
excluded.

The GSMA Inclusive Tech Lab has published a set of harmonised Mobile Money
Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), and now is looking at how to expand
the Mobile Money market through interoperability. The GSMA is working with its
members, and mobile money industry partners to support the interoperability
market using the Mojaloop technology. Thus, the Inclusive Tech Lab has dedicated
efforts to create a platform for interoperability testing.

The test environment is composed of a portal, test controller and set of
simulators, each of which can be replaced with "real" operational system under test. 
The diagram below describes an example of this flow.

import { DelayedGraphviz } from "../src/components/DelayedGraphviz";

<DelayedGraphviz
  timeout={1000}
  options={{ width: "100%", height: "auto" }}
  dot={`
    digraph {
      node [ fontname="var(--ifm-font-family)", shape="box", margin=0.3, penwidth=2];
      edge [ fontname="var(--ifm-font-family)", penwidth=2];
      rankdir="TD"
      ratio="fill";
      size="3,1";
      simulator1 [ label="Simulator 1"]
      sut [ label="System \nUnder Test"]
      simulator2 [ label="Simulator 2"]
      simulatorN [ label="Simulator N"]
      ITP [ label="Test Platform"]
      subgraph sim {
        rank="same"
        simulator1 -> sut -> simulator2 -> simulatorN -> simulator2 -> sut -> simulator1[ style="dashed"]
      }
      ITP -> {simulator1 sut simulator2 simulatorN} [dir="both"]
      subgraph cluster_key {
        style=invis;
        {
          node [ width=0.5, height=0.3, label="", style="invis" ];
          rank = same;
          edge[ minlen = 2 ];
          leg1 -> leg2[ label="Actual Message" ];
          leg2 -> leg4[ style = dashed, label="Logical Message"];
        }
      }
      sut -> leg2 [style=invis] ;
      simulator2 -> leg2 [style=invis] ;
    }
`}
/>


The Interoperability Test Platform allows the user to choose one of the
components in the diagram above to assess its behaviour in different scenarios.
This allows the interoperability of the system to be tested through several test
cases, evaluating the different paths that transactions can take. This project
is still growing and our goal is to add more components and assessment
scenarios. The Interoperability Test Platform is also released under the MIT
license, which allows interested parties to use and modify the platform and its
source code.
